# Proposal : Litex support in OpenBSW

## **Project Overview**

To democratize knowledge of inside of automotive vehicle, the importance of Open Source for Automotive is growing. The automotive domain needs to take a leap from a closed, IP-protected approch to a collaborative approach. The automotive industry is experiencing a paradigm shift where software has become the primary differentiator in modern vehicles.
OpenBSW, a new open-source project within the Eclipse community, aims to change automotive software development by providing an open-source, flexible, and scalable software platform for automotive microcontrollers. 

LibreCar Control was funded by Nlnet in 2023 which provided an openhardware for running automotive software. As part of 2024, we propose to port OpenBSW to open hardware ecosystem of Librecar which includes Litex and its opensource IP cores and peripheral buses like CAN and Ethernet.

...

## **2024 Project Plans**

CAN support was added to Litex in 2023 funding round. However from SW side, only basic support over Linux was added.
By integrating OpenBSW in Litex we would get a streamlined interface for sending and receiving CAN frames with interface to filter, listener and detachment modules. The OS abstraction layer with built-in async mechanisms would add CAN support for both Zephyr RTOS and Linux .
 

### **Target Consumers**


This effort will help the opensource community in following ways:

- Access to an opensource CAN-Bus IP and its drivers and standard applications used in automotive ecosytem. 
- Provding software developers a fully accessible hardware and software over CAN-Bus thus reducing barrier of entry for new developers

...

### **Overview**

For this project, we rely on below opensource tools:

- Litex
- Openbsw
- Linux
- Zephyr
